
Loading [MathJax]/extensions/TeX/noErrors.js
Cornell University
Cornell University Library
We gratefully acknowledge support from
the Simons Foundation
and member institutions
arXiv.org > nucl-ex > arXiv:1705.01974
( Help | Advanced search )
Full-text links:
Download:

    PDF
    Other formats

( license )
Current browse context:
nucl-ex
< prev  |  next >
new  | recent  | 1705
References & Citations

    INSPIRE HEP
    ( refers to | cited by )
    NASA ADS

Bookmark
( what is this? )
CiteULike logo BibSonomy logo Mendeley logo del.icio.us logo Digg logo Reddit logo ScienceWISE logo
Nuclear Experiment
Title: Review of Jet Measurements in Heavy Ion Collisions
Authors: Megan Connors , Christine Nattrass , Rosi Reed , Sevil Salur
(Submitted on 4 May 2017)

    Abstract: A hot, dense medium called a Quark Gluon Plasma (QGP) is created in ultrarelativistic heavy ion collisions. Hard parton scatterings generate high momentum partons that traverse the medium, which then fragment into sprays of particle called jets. Experimental measurements from high momentum hadrons, two particle correlations, and full jet reconstruction at the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) and the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) continue to improve our understanding of energy loss in the QGP. Run 2 at the LHC recently began and there is a jet detector at RHIC under development. Now is the perfect time to reflect on what the experimental measurements have taught us so far, the limitations of the techniques used for studying jets, how the techniques can be improved, and how to move forward with the wealth of experimental data such that a complete description of energy loss in the QGP can be achieved.
    Measurements of jets to date clearly indicate that hard partons lose energy. Detailed comparisons of the nuclear modification factor between data and model calculations led to quantitative constraints on the opacity of the medium to hard probes. While there is substantial evidence for softening and broadening jets through medium interactions, the difficulties comparing measurements to theoretical calculations limit further quantitative constraints on energy loss mechanisms. We call for an agreement between theorists and experimentalists on the appropriate treatment of the background, Monte Carlo generators that enable experimental algorithms to be applied to theoretical calculations, and a clear understanding of which observables are most sensitive to the properties of the medium, even in the presence of background. This will enable us to determine the best strategy for the field to improve quantitative constraints on properties of the medium in the face of these challenges. 

Comments: 	All authors contributed equally to this manuscript. Authors are listed alphabetically
Subjects: 	Nuclear Experiment (nucl-ex)
Cite as: 	arXiv:1705.01974 [nucl-ex]
  	(or arXiv:1705.01974v1 [nucl-ex] for this version)
Submission history
From: Christine Nattrass [ view email ]
[v1] Thu, 4 May 2017 18:53:23 GMT (5072kb,D)
Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? )

Link back to: arXiv , form interface , contact .
Twitter
