Skip to content

To register on our site and for the best user experience, please enable Javascript in your browser using these instructions .
Open global navigation
Cambridge University Press Academic

    Cambridge University Press
    Academic
        Cambridge Core (Institutional access)
        Books Catalogue (Individuals)
    Cambridge English
    Education
    Bibles
    Digital Products
    About Us
        Governance
        Careers
        Rights & Permissions
        Conference Venues
        Contact Us
    Careers
    Contact Us
        Brazil

    Cart
    Location selector Search toggle
    Menu

Cart (0)

Your Cart
×

You have 0  items in your cart.
Subtotal: 0.0
View cart (0) Checkout
View cart and checkout Continue shopping ×
Continue shopping ×
Include historic titles Search products
Register Sign in
Register Sign in
Wishlist
Academic
Unlocking potential with the best learning and research solutions

    Subjects
        Anthropology
        Archaeology
        Arts, theatre and culture
        Chemistry
        Classical studies
        Computer science
        Earth and environmental science
        Economics
        Education
        Engineering
        General science
        Geography
        History
        Languages and linguistics
        Law
        Life science
        Literature
        Management
        Mathematics
        Medicine
        Music
        Philosophy
        Physics and astronomy
        Politics and international relations
        Psychology
        Religion
        Sociology
        Statistics and probability
        Social science research methods
        Browse all subjects
    Textbooks
    Reference
    Authors
    News
    Conferences
    Blogs
    Contact Us
    Brazil

    Home
    Academic
    Physics and astronomy
    Particle physics and nuclear physics

Facebook Twitter LinkedIn
Pinterest Addthis 0 Share
The Lund Model
The Lund Model
$232.00 (C)

Part of Cambridge Monographs on Particle Physics, Nuclear Physics and Cosmology

    Author: Bo Andersson , Lunds Universitet, Sweden

    Date Published: November 1998
    availability: Available
    format: Hardback
    isbn: 9780521420945

Rate & review
$ 232.00 (C)
Hardback
Add to cart Add to wishlist
Other available formats:
Paperback , eBook
Looking for an examination copy?

This title is not currently available for examination. However, if you are interested in the title for your course we can consider offering an examination copy. To register your interest please contact collegesales@cambridge.org providing details of the course you are teaching.

×
×
Description
Product filter button

    Description 
    Contents 
    Resources 
    Courses 
    About the Authors 

    The Lund model, inspired by quantum chromodynamics, has provided a very promising approach to the dynamics of quark and gluon interactions. Starting with a brief reprise of basic concepts in relativity, quantum mechanics of fields and particle physics, Dr. Andersson discusses the dynamics of the massless relativistic string, confinement, causality and relativistic covariance, Lund fragmentation processes, QED and QCD Bremsstrahlung, multiplicities, and particle-parton distributions. Throughout the book, theory confronts current experimental data, and considers implications for future experiments. The book also explores the relationships between the Lund model and other models based on field theory (the Schwinger model, S-matrix models, light-cone algebra physics, and variations of the parton model) and models based on statistical mechanics (the Feynman-Wilson gas, scaling, iterative cascade models). This is a unique monograph for those working in theoretical and particle physics.
        Well-written, covers both theory and experiment
        Extensive coverage is given to Lund fragmentation processes
    Read more
    Reviews & endorsements

    "It must be considered a fundamental reference for people who already work on the Lund model and it will certainly be of interest to many experimentalists working in high energy particle physics. Moreover, it will also be of interest to many of the theorists working on the phenomenology of strong interactions." Mathematical Reviews
    Customer reviews
    Not yet reviewed

    Be the first to review
    Log in to review
    Product details
        Date Published: November 1998
        format: Hardback
        isbn: 9780521420945
        length: 484 pages
        dimensions: 254 x 178 x 27 mm
        weight: 1.05kg
        contains: 115 b/w illus.
        availability: Available
    Table of Contents

    Preface
    1. Relativistic kinematics, electromagnetic fields and the method of virtual quanta
    2. The harmonic oscillator and the quantum field
    3. The vacuum as a dielectric medium and renormalisation
    4. Deep inelastic scattering and the parton model
    5. The classical motion of the massless relativistic string
    6. The decay kinematics of the massless relativistic string
    7. A stochastic process for string decay
    8. The properties of the Lund model fragmentation formulae: external part formulas
    9. The internal part fragmentation formulae and their relations to the unitarity equations of Regge theory
    10. The dynamical analogues of the Lund model fragmentation formulae
    11. Flavour and transverse momentum generation, and the vector to pseudoscalar meson ratio
    12. Heavy quark fragmentation and Baryon production
    13. The Hanbury–Brown–Twiss-effect and polarisation in the Lund model
    14. The Lund gluon model, the kinematics and the decay properties
    15. Gluon emission via the Bremsstrahlung process
    16. Multigluon emission, the dipole moment and parton coherence cascade models
    17. The lambda measure in the leading log, and the modified lead log approximation of perturbative QCD
    18. The parton model and QCD
    19. Inelastic lepto-production in the Lund model, the soft radiation model and heretical structure functions
    20. Hadronic interaction models
    References
    Index.
    Look Inside
        Table of Contents (205 KB)
        Marketing Excerpt (682 KB)
        Front Matter (362 KB)
        Index (221 KB)
        Copyright Information Page (64 KB)
    Author

    Bo Andersson , Lunds Universitet, Sweden

This title is available for institutional purchase via Cambridge Core

Cambridge Core offers access to academic eBooks from our world-renowned publishing programme.
related journals

    The Journal of Navigation
    The Journal of Navigation

    The Journal of Navigation contains original papers on the science of navigation by man and animals over land and…

Browse by related subject

    Atomic physics, molecular physics and chemical physics
    Biological physics and soft matter physics
    Planetary systems and astrobiology
    Condensed matter physics, nanoscience and mesoscopic physics
    Cosmology, relativity and gravitation
    Econophysics, financial physics and social physics
    Electronics for physicists
    General and classical physics

    History and philosophy of physics and astronomy
    Mathematical and computational methods and modelling
    Nonlinear science and fluid dynamics
    Optics, optoelectronics and photonics
    Particle physics and nuclear physics
    Plasma physics and fusion physics
    Quantum physics, quantum information and quantum computation
    Statistical physics, network science and complex systems

    Theoretical physics and mathematical physics
    Astrophysics
    Solar and space plasma physics
    Observational astronomy, techniques and instrumentation
    Amateur and popular astronomy
    Astronomy (general)

Sign In

Please sign in to access your account
Email Address
Password Forgotten your password?
 Remain logged in to website. Cancel
Not already registered? Create an account now. ×
Sorry, this resource is locked

Please register or sign in to request access. If you are having problems accessing these resources please email lecturers@cambridge.org
Register Sign in
Please note that this file is password protected. You will be asked to input your password on the next screen.

» Proceed

You are now leaving the Cambridge University Press website. Your eBook purchase and download will be completed by our partner www.ebooks.com. Please see the permission section of the www.ebooks.com catalogue page for details of the print & copy limits on our eBooks.
Continue ×
Continue ×
Continue ×
Remove this title from your notification list?
Cancel Continue ×
Facebook Twitter LinkedIn
Pinterest Addthis 0 Share
Save 20% off on your next online purchase with Cambridge Alerts

Receive email alerts on new books, offers and news...
Subscribe
Find content that relates to you
Find content that relates to you
I am a...

    I am a...
    Author
    Bookseller
    Company
    Journalist
    Instructor
    Librarian
    Society

Join us online

    LinkedIn
    Facebook
    YouTube
    Google+
    Twitter

    Accessibility
    Legal Notices
    Rights & Permissions
    MSA Statement
    Feedback
    Media
    Sitemap
    © Cambridge University Press 2018
    back to top

Are you sure you want to delete your account?

This cannot be undone.
Cancel

Thank you for your feedback which will help us improve our service.

If you requested a response, we will make sure to get back to you shortly.
×
Please fill in the required fields in your feedback submission.
×

, create a review

(If you're not , sign out )
Please enter the right captcha value
Please enter a star rating.
Your review must be a minimum of 12 words.
How do you rate this item?
20
40
60
80
100
Reviews must contain at least 12 words about the product.
×

Review was not posted due to profanity
×
