
Toggle navigation Top

    Download
    Publications
    About
    Our Team
    Contact

MUSIC
A (3+1)D hydrodynamic code for heavy-ion collisions




Download
Download

Click the icon to download MUSIC from sourceforge

(Get the latest version from the link "Download Snapshot")
Publications
MUSIC has been used to study many different aspects of heavy ion collisions. Here are a few examples:
Small collision systems

Phys.Rev. C95 (2017) no.1, 014906
Photon production

Phys.Rev. C93 (2016) no.4, 044906
Bulk viscosity of hot QCD matter

Phys.Rev.Lett. 115 (2015) no.13, 132301
IP-Glasma+MUSIC

Phys.Rev.Lett. 110 (2013) no.1, 012302
EbE viscous hydrodynamics

Phys.Rev.Lett. 106 (2011) 042301
(3+1)D hydrodynamics

Phys.Rev. C82 (2010) 014903
About
MUSIC is a 3+1D relativistic second-order viscous hydrodynamics for heavy ion collisions

    2009-2010
    (3+1)D ideal relativistic hydrodynamics

    MUSIC was born at McGill as an ideal (3+1)D hydrodynamic code for heavy ion collisions.
    October 2010
    (3+1)D viscous hydrodynamics

    The Kurganov-Tadmor solver behind MUSIC is extended to include first and second order shear viscous corrections
    2013-2015
    Non-linear viscous hydrodynamics

    A full set of second order viscous non-linear coupling terms is implemented in MUSIC, including a full implementation of bulk viscosity
    Summer 2017
    First public release

    The first public version of MUSIC is released

Our team
Here are the people behind the scene
Gabriel Denicol

Charles Gale

Sangyong Jeon

Matt Luzum

Jean-François Paquet

Bjoern Schenke

Chun Shen

Questions? Comments?

Click the icon to go to the official discussion page of MUSIC
Made from a free bootstrap theme
install tracking codes
Visitors Total
Production of photons in relativistic heavy-ion collisions

J.-F. Paquet, C. Shen, G. S. Denicol, M. Luzum, B. Schenke, S. Jeon and C. Gale

The use of a hydrodynamical model of heavy ion collisions which incorporates recent developments, together with updated photon emission rates, greatly improves agreement of direct photon calculations with both ALICE and PHENIX measurements, supporting the idea that thermal photons are the dominant source of direct photon momentum anisotropy. The event-by-event hydrodynamical model uses IP-Glasma initial states and includes, for the first time, both shear and bulk viscosities, along with second order couplings between the two viscosities. The effect of both shear and bulk viscosities on the photon rates is studied, and those transport coefficients are shown to have measurable consequences on the photon momentum anisotropy.

The full paper can be download from this link .
Close Project
The importance of the bulk viscosity of QCD in ultrarelativistic heavy-ion collisions

S. Ryu, J.-F. Paquet, C. Shen, G. S. Denicol, B. Schenke, S. Jeon, and C. Gale

We investigate the consequences of a nonzero bulk viscosity coefficient on the transverse momen- tum spectra, azimuthal momentum anisotropy, and multiplicity of charged hadrons produced in heavy ion collisions at LHC energies. The agreement between a realistic 3D hybrid simulation and the experimentally measured data considerably improves with the addition of a bulk viscosity coeffi- cient for strongly interacting matter. This paves the way for an eventual quantitative determination of several QCD transport coefficients from the experimental heavy ion and hadron-nucleus collision programs.

The full paper can be viewed from this link .
Close Project
Collectivity and electromagnetic radiation in small systems

C. Shen, J.-F. Paquet, G. S. Denicol, S. Jeon and C. Gale

Collective behaviour has been observed in hadronic measurements of high multiplicity proton+lead collisions at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), as well as in (proton, deuteron, helium-3)+gold collisions at the Relativistic Heavy-Ion Collider (RHIC). To better understand the evolution dynamics and the properties of the matter created in these small systems, a systematic study of the soft hadronic observables together with electromagnetic radiation from these collisions is performed, using a hydrodynamic framework. Quantitative agreement is found between theoretical calculations and existing experimental hadronic observables. The validity of the fluid dynamical description is estimated by calculating Knudsen and inverse Reynolds numbers. Sizeable thermal yields are predicted for low pT photons. Further predictions of higher order charged hadron anisotropic flow coefficients and of thermal photon enhancement are proposed.

The full paper can be download from this link .
Close Project
Event-by-event anisotropic flow in heavy-ion collisions from combined Yang-Mills and viscous fluid dynamics

C. Gale, S. Jeon, B. Schenke, P. Tribedy, and R. Venugopalan

Anisotropic flow coefficients v 1 -v 5 in heavy ion collisions are computed by combining a classical Yang-Mills description of the early time glasma flow with the subsequent relativistic viscous hydrodynamic evolution of matter through the quark-gluon plasma and hadron gas phases. The glasma dynamics, as realized in the IP-Glasma model, takes into account event-by-event geometric fluctuations in nucleon positions and intrinsic sub-nucleon scale color charge fluctuations; the pre-equilibrium flow of matter is then matched to the music algorithm describing viscous hydrodynamic flow and particle production at freeze-out. The IP-Glasma+music model describes well both transverse momentum dependent and integrated vn data measured at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) and the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC). The model also reproduces the event-by-event distributions of v 2 , v 3 and v 4 measured by the ATLAS collaboration. The implications of our results for better understanding of the dynamics of the glasma as well as for the extraction of transport properties of the quark-gluon plasma are outlined.

The full paper can be download from this link .
Close Project
Elliptic and triangular flow in event-by-event (3+1)D viscous hydrodynamics

B. Schenke, S. Jeon, and C. Gale

We present results for the elliptic and triangular flow coefficients v 2 and v 3 in Au+Au collisions √s = 200 A GeV using event-by-event 3+1D viscous hydrodynamic simulations. We study the effect of initial state fluctuations and finite viscosities on the flow coefficients v 2 and v 3 as functions of transverse momentum and pseudo-rapidity. Fluctuations are essential to reproduce the measured centrality dependence of elliptic flow. We argue that simultaneous measurements of v 2 and v 3 can determine η/s more precisely.

The full paper can be download from this link .
Close Project
3+1D hydrodynamic simulation of relativistic heavy-ion collisions

B. Schenke, S. Jeon, and C. Gale

We present MUSIC, an implementation of the Kurganov-Tadmor algorithm for relativistic 3+1 dimensional fluid dynamics in heavy-ion collision scenarios. This Riemann-solver-free, second-order, high-resolution scheme is characterized by a very small numerical viscosity and its ability to treat shocks and discontinuities very well. We also incorporate a sophisticated algorithm for the determination of the freeze-out surface using a three dimensional triangulation of the hyper-surface. Implementing a recent lattice based equation of state, we compute pT-spectra and pseudorapidity distributions for Au+Au collisions at √s = 200 GeV and present results for the anisotropic flow coefficients v 2 and v 4 as a function of both pT and pseudorapidity η. We were able to determine v 4 with high numerical precision, finding that it does not strongly depend on the choice of initial condition or equation of state.

The full paper can be download from this link .
Close Project
