
Processing math: 0%
Cornell University
Cornell University Library
We gratefully acknowledge support from
the Simons Foundation
and member institutions
arXiv.org > hep-ph > arXiv:1801.00008
( Help | Advanced search )
Full-text links:
Download:

    PDF
    Other formats

( license )
Current browse context:
hep-ph
< prev  |  next >
new  | recent  | 1801
Change to browse by:
hep-ex
References & Citations

    INSPIRE HEP
    ( refers to | cited by )
    NASA ADS

Bookmark
( what is this? )
CiteULike logo BibSonomy logo Mendeley logo del.icio.us logo Digg logo Reddit logo ScienceWISE logo
High Energy Physics - Phenomenology
Title: Inverting the mass hierarchy of jet quenching effects with prompt b -jet substructure
Authors: Hai Tao Li , Ivan Vitev
(Submitted on 29 Dec 2017)

    Abstract: The mass of heavy quarks, such as charm and bottom, plays an important role in the formation of parton showers. This effect is apparently not well understood when parton showers evolve in a strongly interacting quark-gluon plasma. We propose a new experimental measurement in relativistic heavy ion collisions, based on a two-prong subjet structure inside a reconstructed heavy flavor jet, which can place stringent constraints on the mass dependence of in-medium splitting functions. We identify the region of jet transverse momenta where parton mass effects are leading and predict a unique reversal of the mass hierarchy of jet quenching effects in heavy ion relative to proton collisions. Namely, the momentum sharing distribution of prompt b -tagged jets is more strongly modified in comparison to the one for light jets. Our work is useful in guiding experimental efforts at the Large Hadron Collider and the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider in the near future. 

Comments: 	5 pages, 3 figures
Subjects: 	High Energy Physics - Phenomenology (hep-ph) ; High Energy Physics - Experiment (hep-ex)
Cite as: 	arXiv:1801.00008 [hep-ph]
  	(or arXiv:1801.00008v1 [hep-ph] for this version)
Submission history
From: Haitao Li [ view email ]
[v1] Fri, 29 Dec 2017 19:00:00 GMT (51kb,D)
Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax ( What is MathJax? )

Link back to: arXiv , form interface , contact .
Twitter
